Okay in this video I'm going to go
through a code review of a Spring Boot
application I've written for Postgress
the Postgress database, and I have it up
on GitHub and you can see on my screen
I'm at the project repository on
GitHub. So if you go to my ID on
GitHub which is springframeworkguru
and the repository is /spring-boot-postgress-example and you'll
get the complete source code for
what I'm about to show you here so I'm
going to switch over to IntelliJ where I
have the project up and step you through
this little Spring Boot application I've
written for Postgress. Now the first thing
that we see, we're going to take a look
at the JPA class and this is a typical JPA
mapping and I've set up an id,
description, price and an imageUrl so
just a sample product. So a basic POJO no
big mystery here if you're familiar with
JPA, did the mapping we're doing
GenerationType of IDENTITY for this so
auto generation now the next thing I
want to take a look at is the repository
now I've set up a ProductRepository and this extends out the Crud
Repository from Spring Data JPA. Now if
you're not familiar with Spring Data JPA,
Spring Data JPA will provide an
implementation of this interface for us
so then it will implement the repository
pattern and what we're going to do is
leverage this so we don't have to do
much with as far as working with Entity
Manager and whatnot that will all be
managed by Spring Data JPA, it's actually
a really nice project from the folks
over at Spring. Now I like to use a
service and the service is going to get
injected into the controller so this
will obscure the repository pattern from
the controller and allow us to do
anything that we need to do between the
controller and the Spring Data
repository. Now you could do this inside
the controller not something that I like
to do, like to keep all the business
logic and a service layer and keep my
controllers fairly light. Now this is my
implementation of the
service and we can see that up on line
16 there, I've annotated the class as a
Service so when Spring Boot does its
components scan it will go through and
wire up this class and now this
class does have two dependencies, one as
the ProductRepository with which we
just looked at, the next is ProductForm
ToProduct and that as a converter class
so I'm following a command object design
pattern here and I'm binding the form
properties to an object called Product
Form and this ProductFormToProduct as
a converter to switch it over to the
JPA class of Product. Now you can see my
implementations for CRUD operations here
I have a listAll, that would give us all of them, I get
ById, to pass an ID value, saveOrUpdate
and which will do exactly what is says, save
the object and then delete option
and then I also have one on line 54, a
saveOrUpdate from the ProductForm where
we will convert it over from the Product
Form. So just a little helper method
there so let's take a look at the
controller and here's the ProductController and you can see there on line
27 I am auto wiring in the ProductForm
and that is the converter and also
on line 32,
I am auto wiring in the ProductService
so I am using setter based dependency
injection there. And line 36 we can see
that I am doing a RequestMapping of the
root directory and I just simply
redirect that over to the product/list
and so when we go to the root of the web
application we'll get redirected to a
list and you can see I've got other
options there for show edit creating a
new product and then down there on
line 68 is where I will take in the
saveOrUpdate from the form
and then finally on line 18 I've got a
mapping to go in and delete a product
and all these here correlate to Thymeleaf templates which are in the template
directory so quickly take a look at the
list and here's the Thymeleaf
template for the list operation. We have
other templates out there for Product
Form and show and if you're new to Thymeleaf I do have a complete course on
Thymeleaf called mastering Thymeleaf. Be sure to check that out if you want to
learn more about Thymeleaf and let's
take a quick look at application.
properties and this is where we're going
to get into some important stuff line 5
is the data source URL and this is
what's going to tell JDBC where to find
the database at so I am saying for
Postgress that I want to go to localhost
port 5432 which is the default port
for Postgress and then to the database
springbootdb and as that's important
to have your database map there so
you're going to change those based on
whatever database you are connecting to
and in my case i have a username of postgress, postgress@123 for the
password and those two values of course
you are going to be setting to your
specific values. Now on line 8 there's
the Postgress driver we need to set that
as well and 10 and 11 these are things
to keep the data source alive
so if you have an application and not
doing a lot of activity to the database
your connection can get smacked down and
what this does is go out and do a select
from the database to keep that socket
connection up and alive and a handy
thing that we can do here on line 16 is
to show the SQL so we can get to see the
SQL logged out to the console and this
is handy for our debugging. Line 19 for
Hibernate we are doing a create-drop and
this is going to recreate the database
each time so this is fine for
development, definitely not something
that you would want to do in a
production database. I typically run
validate with the production database
which is going to validate the database
schema
in production against my JPA mappings
and if something's wrong the application
will fail to start. Then we are using the
most recent version of Spring Boot which
is the 1.5 series and in Spring
Boot 1.4 and are 1.4 or higher,
we are using Hibernate 5 and we got
some new naming strategies and on lines
22 and 23, these affect out how Hibernate
names tables
and columns based on our JPA mappings
and then finally we want to set the
Hibernate dialect for Postgress SQL and
that is done on line 26 now let's go
ahead and take a look at running this
you see here I've got the Spring Boot
Postgres application. I'm just going to
click run here and this will start up, it
does start up pretty quickly and see
that Spring Boot is running and we did
get a little bit of SQL logged out
here. So we can see the SQL generated by
Hibernate to generate our table and now
I'm going to toggle over to Chrome again
and let's do a refresh and I shouldn't
have any data there so brand new
database. Now if I come in here to create
new product, some description, 12, some URL
and submit that and we can see that this
has been persisted to the database. I
come over here go back to the list now
we can see that and let's edit and let's
do a 333 on the description just to
change it, submit it and we can see that
that changed on the show screen let's
double check the list and we see that
the 333 there is present so that has
been persisted to my Postgress database
and just as a quick reminder, if you do
want to get this project on GitHub go
springframeworkguru/spring-boot-postgress-example